# PyBer_Analysis

## Overview
PyBer is a ride sharing app that hired us to analyze their data. The analysis is centered around PyBer's business outcomes in different "city types". Rural, suburuban, and urban cities have unique characteristics that can be leveraged by PyBer to improve their business. Discovering the specifics of these city types and learning how they differ, is the first step to improving PyBer's service of these communites.
## Results
As expected, there were major differences in the results for each city type. The "ride count by city type" was a lopsided measure. The urban ride total was thirteen times larger than that of the rural ride count. In addition, Urban cities had significantly more rides than the suburban cities, with 1,625 rides to suburban's 625. These counts shouldn't be to suprising, as they pair with the general popluation size of these city types. Urban cities had more drivers than total rides according to the dataframe, while rural areas and suburbs have more rides than drivers. The average fare for rural drivers is significantly more than that of the urban rides. Suburban average fares per driver is less than rural, but was still much larger than the fares per urban driver. The average fares per ride was the closest category in the PyBer summary dataframe. Average fare per ride was highest in the rural areas, but the ratio was not that large as the other categories. Its worth considering the cause of higher average fares in the rural areas. The lower supply of drivers in the area could increase fare rates, or the tendency of rural areas to be spread out may lead to longer routes on average. The total fares are largest in urban areas and that is were the plurality of the money is made by PyBer. The suburban and rural total fares combined are just a bit over half the total fares in the urban settings. The weekly total fares have an ebb and flow without too many clear takeaways, other than an anomalous dip during the week of April 7th. This strange dip lead me to reasses if anything had gone wrong in the code. This appears to be consistent with the underlying data, it might be neccesary to take a deep dive in the data set to see if something has gone wrong. It's possible it was just an unusual week for PyBer, or could have been caused by a free ride promotion by a competitor which impacted the rides for PyBer. 
## Summary
I think many of the city disparities would be hard to change given the popluation sizes of the city types, but some things could be optimized. Urban cities make the most money, and they have a surplus of drivers in these areas. It would behoove PyBer to find a way to increase market share in the urban areas to utilize this large driver supply. Suburban areas have a nice average fare per ride and a sizable population to find potential customers. Suburban areas could use a boost in driver supply to allow room for growth in total rides. Currently, suburban areas are the second best city type for rides and total fare, so this should remain a focus of PyBer. Rural areas make the most money per ride, but its a low volume portion of the business. You could consider raising fares in the rural areas since the ratio of rides to drivers is skewed towards the former. 

